[new] send grafana emails (#1627)
timescale/docs: mst/aiven-client/grafana-email.md

---
title: Send Grafana emails
excerpt: Configure the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) server in MST for Grafana.
product: mst
---

# Send Grafana emails

Use the Aiven client to configure the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP)

> server settings and send the following emails from Managed Service for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
server settings and send emails from Managed Service for
```

> TimescaleDB for Grafana such as invite emails, reset password emails, and alert

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TimescaleDB for Grafana, including invite emails, reset password emails, and alert
```

messages.

## Before you begin

> *   Installed [Aiven Client][aiven-client-mst].
> *   Signed in to your [Managed Service for TimescaleDB dashboard][mst-login].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Install [Aiven Client][aiven-client-mst].
*   Sign in to your [Managed Service for TimescaleDB dashboard][mst-login].
```

*   Create a service for [Grafana in MST][grafana-install]

> *   Make a note of these values in the SMTP server: `IP or hostname`, SMTP

Reviewer: Is there a reason SMTP server port isn't formatted as inline code?

    server port, `Username`, `Password`, `Sender email address`, `Sender name`
    (optional).

<procedure>

## Configuring the SMTP server for Grafana service

1.  In the Aiven client, connect to your
    [Managed Service for TimescaleDB service][aiven-client-mst].

1.  Switch to the project that contains the Grafana service you want to
    integrate:

    ```bash
     avn project switch <PROJECT>
    ```

1.  List the services in the project, and make a note of the Grafana service
    that you want to configure, listed under `SERVICE_NAME` column in the
    output.

    ```bash
     avn service list
    ```

1.  Get the details of the service that you want to integrate:

    ```bash
    avn service get <SERVICE_NAME>
    ```

1.  Configure the Grafana service using the SMTP values:

    ```bash
       avn service update --project <PROJECT> <SERVICE_NAME>\
       -c smtp_server.host=smtp.example.com \
       -c smtp_server.port=465 \
       -c smtp_server.username=emailsenderuser \
       -c smtp_server.password=emailsenderpass \
       -c smtp_server.from_address="grafana@yourcompany.com"
    ```

> 1.  (*OPTIONAL*)Review all available custom options, and configure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  (*OPTIONAL*) Review all available custom options, and configure:
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  *OPTIONAL* Review all available custom options, and configure:
```
